High in this chapter we are going to talk about support better machines.
So let's get started.
Basically what our support actor machines it is a very very popular and widely used supervised learning
classification algorithm of course.
The great benefit of ESSWEIN yams is that it can operate Eithan in infinit dimensions.
So we have been talking about that for example Navy base is working fine in high demand engines but
supper Pachter machines are even better.
They can operate even in infinit dimensions.
It defines a margin or a boundary between the data points in a multi dimensional space.
And the goal is to find a flat boundary or a so-called hyperplane that leads to a homogeneous partition
of the data.
So a good separation is achieved by the hyperplane that has the largest distance to the nearest training
data point of any class that has the largest distance to the nearest training data point of any class
since in general the larger the margin over the generalization and all of the classifier.
So we have to maximize the margin.
So what's the margin we are going to talk a bit more about what's the margin it's going to be clear.
So it can be applied to almost everything for credit scoring for any kind of classification problem.
Optical correct or recognition and so on.
So classifications or numerical predictions.
It is widely used in pattern recognition.
For example identifying cancer or genetic diseases task classification to classify pacts based on the
language or detecting rare events earthquakes for example or engine failures.
So support vector machines are working quite fine.
So first of all let's talk about the linearity separable problem.
So let's suppose the fact that we have a two dimensional plane which two features the Axum on and the
X-2 these features can be the size of the House and the price of the House or the crunchiness of a given
vegetable and the sweetness parameter for a given vegetable.
It can be any features basically.
So we have the X1 and x2 features and some data points.
It is a supervised learning algorithm.
So we know the labels we have the green dots and the red dots.
And of course we have defined a boundary or the hyperplane.
As I said earlier.
So as you can see there are several opportunities how to choose the hyperplane.
But we want to find the hyperplane in this case a line that separates the different data points with
the maximum margin.
So we would like to make sure that the way of this margin is going to be as big as possible.
In this case it's going to separate the green dots and the red dot.
But maybe we are able to find a solution where the width of the margin is even bigger.
So for example this one is a bit better maybe.
But here we have the solution we are looking for.
This is the maximum margin solution and this is why I support vector machines is usually called the
maximum Margene classifier because we are looking for a hyperplane or a line in just two dimension that's
going to separate that door.
So the green dots and the red dots in a way where the margin is as wide as possible.
OK.
And you may pose a question there why do we call it support object or machine because we can define
Saporta vectors the points from each class that are closest to the maximum margin hyperplane and each
class have at least one Saporta matter of course.
So as far as the green dots are concerned this is the support vector because it is the closest point
to the hyperplane.
All the other green dots are further away from the hyperplane Dandy's Daut as far as the Red Cross is
concerned.
We have to support the vectors because let's suppose that they are equally far away from the hyperplane.
So basically we are able to find the supporting actors.
And why is it good to know the support of amateurs because we are two actors alone.
It is possible to reconstruct the hyperplane and it is a very very good information because it means
that we can store the classification model even when we have millions of features.
We don't have to bother about the features we just have to store basically the points.
So the support vectors and we are able to get the classification of modal according to the supper factors.
OK so another important question is that how to find hyperplane when the problem is in the OR is separable
we are able to do it with convex hearts for example.
So the hyperplane is the perpendicular bisector of the shorter slide between the two hall.
You may pose a question that OK what's next.
Hall and KMAX hall smallest complex sat that contains all the points for a given class.
So we create and construct a KMAX hard for the green class and then for the rat class and the hyperplane
is the perpendicular sector of the shortest line between the two hall.
So we find the shortest line between the two hall and the perpendicular sector is going to be the hyperplane
we are looking for.
So this is a solution to our problem.
We are able to define the hyperplane we drop off or weps Halas.
But we are able to do a bit better with the standard mathematical approach.
So the equation of a hyperplane in and-I imagines is something like this.
The W vector times the X factor plus V is equal to zero in two dimensions.
It is the basic y equal to times x laws of the equation where B is the intercept and and is the slope
of the given line in and imagines we have the so the way it's W on W2 up to W N and we have the features
x1 x2.
Up to axon.
And we just have to make a dot product basically Plus the equal to zero is going to define the hyperplane
in and imagines of course the aim of the supper Bactrim machine algorithm is to find a w and awaits
so that the data points will be separated accordingly.
We are able to make some classification based on the terrain supporting actor or machine.
OK so two planes can be defined by the equations.
So these equations basically.
And what's very important that we have to make sure that the distance between these two planes is as
big as possible.
So Waechter geometric defines that the distance between the two planes is equal to two divided by the
Euclidean norm of the weights and the Euclidean norm is basically the distance from the zero.
And we want to make the distance as large as possible.
So we want to maximize the distance between the two planes.
Hence the name maximum margin classifier.
And if we want to maximize a disturbance then it means that we have to minimize this term.
So and after anything optimization is to minimize the norm of d'arte double use actor and we usually
minimize the one divide by two times the Euclidean norm of the weights squared.
Why.
Because it is mathematically convenient to use this kind of formula.
If we would like to find the minimum for the weights then the minimum is going to be in the same location
as we would find the minimum for double you Euclidean norm squared.
So basically this transformation if we multiply it by 0.5 of course it's not going to change the result.
So quadratic optimization solves this problem quite easily.
So how we are able to find the optimal weights basically And if we have the weights then we have this
equation and this equation is going to define the hyperplane.
And if we have the equation of the hyperplane then we are able to separate the green dots and the red
dots.
So we are able to classify other data points based on the training data.
So that's all about linearly separable problem.
Thanks for watching.